life is feeling a bit ordinary?
Travel choices a bit taint?
Head beyond the asteroid belt for an out of this world experience.
Welcome to Jupiter, home of high adrenaline adventure.
Plunge into its mysterious depths.
You drop through the clouds, it would get darker and darker
and hotter and hotter, at the center
temperatures are hotter than the surface of the sun,
and the pressures are unimaginably high.
Stormy on the inside and
stormy on the outside.
I like to watch hurricanes on TV.
You know, the great red spot being the biggest
hurricane that
we know of
and it having been there for 400 years, to see this would be pretty cool.
What more bang for your buck?
Thrill seeker should had to Io,
Jupiter's exotic moon of fire and brimstone,
To see Io just blasting off
these huge volcanic plumes, coveting glowing volcanoes,
It would be a pretty amazing place to see.
Escape Io's hot zone with a dive into the
ice covered alien ocean of neighboring Europa,
just the place for a close encounter of the weirdest kind.
Is there a reason to go to Europa?
You bet.
It's a totally unexplored world
and it probably has the highest probability of life of this planet
Choose Jupiter and the change of scenery is guaranteed.
With its 62 alien moons to explore,
out here, there is something for everyone.
Tempted?
There has never been a better time to take a giant leap
to where no human has gone before,
to follow in the footsteps of our robot pioneers
and explore the planets of our solar system.
A tour of the solar system wouldn't be complete
without a visit to its largest planet
but with the grandest sites,
biggest dangers and greatest mysteries,
all on the itinerary.
It pays to brush up,
before blast off.
consider this your personal guide
to exploring the kingdom of Jupiter.
Enter the court of an alien giant.
Jupiter is one of the most spectacular places in the solar system.
If you are approaching by spacecraft,
you could see from a long distance
the cloud patterns of Jupiter.
its incredibly complex,
constantly changing, multi colored clouds
that are look like nothing else in the solar system.
Jupiter takes its name from the
Roman king of the gods.
feeding for the brooding and mysterious
king of the planets.
Calling it the biggest planet in the solar system,
doesn't do a justice.
Jupiter is a world so roomy
that it could swallow every planet
and moon in the solar system and still have room for more.
If you move the Earth, you could put it inside
the great red spot which is the largest storm there
and there are several other spots there about Earth size,
so everything on Jupiter is big.
You can fit a thousand Earths inside Jupiter. Its huge
and yet its quite quite under dense.
Its made of almost entirely hydrogen and helium.
This giant gas bag
is built from the flimsiest materials in the universe.
But for all its squishy bulk,
its a great little mover.
Jupiter spins at such break next speed that
it bulges at the equator.
So fast in fact that a day here lasts less than 10 hours,
the shortest of all the planets.
Our gaze was first drawn to the attractions of Jupiter
400 Earth years ago,
when Italian astronomer Galileo
pointed his telescope toward the planet
on January 7th 1610.
His curious novelty, quickly became
one of the most powerful scientific instruments of all time,
and turned our world on its head.
What he saw for the first time was
that Jupiter had 4 moons
and he could see those 4 moons were going around the planet,
and this is what really first told him
that Earth couldn't possibly be the center.
Here were objects going around something other than the Earth.
It was a revelation.
Io, Europa, Callisto and Ganymede.
Were these worlds like our own, circling at distant master?
It's a cosmic experience anyone with
the backyard telescope can have.
Point at Jupiter and you'll see for yourself.
Jupiter is like a little miniature solar system by itself.
It has many moons, 4 of which are
very large and bright, the rest of which are very small and faint,
but these moons are all different.
The court of the king of the planets is crowded.
At last count, an entourage of 62 moons
was in attendance,
all dancing to Jupiter's heavy gravitational tune.
It's even crowned by trio of faint gossamer rings
Jupiter is a planet that knows
how to exert its influence on the solar system,
and how to impress even the season traveler.
You can fly around the Earth
in a jumbo jet in less than two days.
Try this on jumbo Jupiter, and you'll be in the air
for three solid weeks, refueling about
50 times.
Not only will you get sick of the food,
there is nowhere to land.
We don't actually have the surface of Jupiter.
You shine a big strong radar pulse at Jupiter and what you get back is four tiny blips.
You see the moons of Jupiter are just fine,
in fact we can study them by radar
Jupiter isn't there, its like a stealth planet, If you have radar
eyes, you'd wonder what these things were circling.
For stealthy planet, Jupiter makes a big
blip on the space travel radar, and it's a target
worth a trip.
The best way to test fly the trip to Jupiter
is to retrace extraordinary journey
of the only spacecraft to orbit it.
Launched by shuttle.
The Galileo spacecraft left Earth
in 1989